The world wide web is a network of information resources

The web relies on 3 mechanisms 

1. single naming schema (URL)
To give access to any resources on the web in a uniform way.

2. Protocols (HTTP)
To enable the exchange of named resources over the web.

3. Hypertext (HTML)
For easy navigation among resources.

Universal Resource Locators (URLs) :
Every resource available on the web "HTML document, image, video clip, program, etc.." has an address that may be encoded by a universal resource locator, or 'URL'.

URL consistes of 3 pieces
1. The name of the protocol used to transfer the resource over the web.
2. The name of the machine hosting the resource.
3. The name of the resource itself given as a path.

For Example 'http://www.mdn.org/main-letters/first-letter.html'
This URL may be read as follows
Use the HTTP protocol to transfer the data
residing on the machine (www.mdn.org)
in the file (main-letters/first-letter.html)

HTTP 
It's an application-layer protocol for transmiting documents
Designed for communication between web browsers and servers
with a client oening a connection to make a request Then waitting
until it receives a response 
HTTP is a stateless protocol means that the server does not keep any Data ( state ) between two requestes.
Though often based on a TCP/IP layer, it can be used on any reliable transport layer.

Typical HTTP session 
in client-server protocols, like HTTP, sessions consists of three phases:
  1. The client establish a TCP connection 
  ( or appropriate connection if the transport layer is not TCP )
  2. The client sends it's request, and waits for the answer.
  3. The server processes the request, sending back its answer
  ( providing a status code and appropriate data )




TCP ( Transmission Control Protocol )
is a Transport Layer host-to-host protocol for connection-oriented communication between two computers on an IP network

TCP uses virtual ports to create virtual end-to-end connection that can reuse the physical connection between two computers 



















